let's say that we need to create to pivot tables from the same data source with two
different groupings.
So,
for example,
here this pivot table is grouped by quarters here on the order date field.
Now let's say we want to create another pivot table from the same data source,
which is this data here that is grouped by months,
for example.
So let's try the traditional approach here.
I'm just gonna insert a pivot table and I'm gonna insert it.
Let's say in the same worksheet here,
I want to create it on the same worksheet as this profitable,
and I want to pivot tables from the same data source with two different groupings.
Now,
I'm gonna create this pivot table here,
and then I'm gonna put the order date here on the world section,
and I'm gonna put the sales amount on the submission of value six and already you're seeing
here it's actually gonna had and grouped by quitters as well.
So it seems like both of these air linked.
Let's sorry to change the grouping on that 12 months,
for example,
when will the quarters here click?
OK,
could see here that they're both link.
So we're not able to create to pivot tables from the same data source with different
groupings,
at least using this way.
Actually,
there are work arounds to do it.
So the verse work around is to create a new workbook ears.
I'm gonna press control and end on the keyboard to create any workbook,
and then I'm gonna insert pivot table.
I'm gonna go get it from that data source here.
So I'm gonna go get it from this table and I'm gonna put it in an existing worksheet.
Let's put it here on this worksheet first and let's go to a new workbook here.
So,
as you can see here,
we've got a new workbook with a pivot table here that we just created has put the order
date on the world section and this Just remove these groupings here and let's put the sales
amount on the submission of value section.
You can see here This pivot table is now grouped by months.
Although it's from the same source,
it's actually not linked grouping wise to the other pivot tables.
I can select this pivot table here,
press control and X to cut it and then go to my other workbook here and press control envy
.
Now I can actually right click group And I can group by quarters,
for example,
on this one and easier.
When I changed 2/4 on this one,
it didn't change the other two.
So they actually are not linked at the moment,
although they come from the same data source.
So although this pivot table here comes from the same data source,
it has a different pivot cash.
Now,
another way to do it is to press olt d p on your keyboard and this will open the pivot
table and pivot chart wizard and is gonna ask you here,
Where is the data you want to analyze?
And it's actually in a Microsoft Excel list their database.
So I'm gonna click next year,
and then I'm gonna selecting migraines,
So I'm gonna select my data here.
This is my data,
and I'm gonna press next.
And here is giving me some sort of ah,
warning message of new report will use this memory if you base it on your existing report.
Pivot table seven,
which was created from the same data source.
Do you want your new report?
to be based on the same data as your existing report.
This means it's giving me the choice whether I would like the new pivot table to use the
same pivot cash or a different pivot gush.
In this case,
I actually wanted to use the different pivot gash.
So I'm gonna press no here so that they would have to separate pivot gushes.
So I'm gonna for snow.
And is it cause here it's giving me the option to put it in your work shit or an existing
worship?
I'm just gonna put in existing worshipped here,
put it in this cell and then press finish.
And now I am going to put the order date here on the road section.
I'm gonna move any grouping and do the grouping again by myself.
Gonna put the sales amount here and let's do a different grouping here.
So group by,
let's say,
by days,
year and by months,
and click OK here,
Cizikas here.
I managed to group this pivot table with a different grouping and it didn't affect the
other pivot tables because it's using a separate pivot cash.
It says you can see here two ways to get around grouping pivot tables from the same data
source,
since if you do it just the straightforward way it will use the same pivot cash and the
grouping will be linked.
But as you can see here,
we showed two ways to get around that.
So that's that guy's for grouping credit tables from the same data source.
Thanks so much for watching this video.
I'll see you on the next one.